hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neonews
today.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
this is a special episode of the smart
economy podcast dedicated to eth Denver
2023 the first East Denver event was
held in 2018 and has become the quote's
largest and longest running ethereum
hackathon in the world end quote and the
event holds a special place in my heart
because it brings a global community of
Builders to Colorado and the general
Intermountain west region of the US this
is a part of the country that I feel is
striving to be as Forward Thinking and
blockchain friendly as possible for
instance the current governor of
Colorado was the first Congressman to
accept Bitcoin for his re-election
campaign in 2014 and into 2022 it became
possible to pay for our state taxes
using cryptocurrency this year's eth
Denver also marked a milestone for the
community building event it had outgrown
its previous location of the iconic
Denver Sports Castle the Sports Castle
was built in 1926 and the building
itself is a prominent feature on
Broadway one of Denver's busiest
downtown roads the Sports Castle was eat
Denver's home for its first five years
and there was an emotional attachment to
the building this is a point that we'll
touch upon later in this episode instead
of our spiritual home for the previous
five years the herd of biddlers were
gathered at the Denver Western Stock
Show Complex a wise decision in
retrospect as there were more attendees
at East Denver 2023 then attended all
the years prior cumulatively this year
there was a a 50 percent growth in the
previous year's attendance alone at
about 48 000 attendees and 15 000 unique
attendees the floor space at the new
venue was massive with hundreds of
thousands of square feet the main hall
boasted hundreds of booths for web 3
companies at least five main stages for
presentations a gargantuan amount of
tables for hackathon teams to
collaborate over and just generally
buzzed with activity overall despite the
market sentiment the building mentality
was stronger than ever and this was
exhibited by hackathon final projects
such as building on bitcoin through
inscriptions spinning up effective and
safe burner wallets using D5 protocols
to contribute to social causes and so
many more cool projects while the
builders were brimming with activity
building cool products there was also an
air aware of uncertainty that lingered
so many of the panelists and
presentations on those main stages
particularly from VCS and lawyers
discussed regulatory concerns and the
opportunities and constraints that are
currently in the crypto space that said
with this merry bunch of web3
participants the positives definitely
outweighed the negatives walking away
from eth Denver this year I felt my
thesis was further confirmed it is safe
to say that blockchain will continue to
grow and from a regulatory perspective
if one jurisdiction isn't favorable to a
crypto company then another one will be
the networks will continue to grow and
peer-to-peer decentralized Solutions
will continue to embed their way into
everyday life this is why the smart
economy podcast exists there is a shift
in the way that people can contribute to
and participate in digital economies
people no longer need to locate in
geophysical agglomerated regions like
Silicon Valley they can instead
contribute to a New Economic Paradigm
from anywhere in the world with a laptop
and an internet connection listeners we
are at the Forefront of the new digital
Frontier
so while I was walking around East
Denver I wanted to see what some of the
other attendees thought about the
general atmosphere of the broader
blockchain and crypto space there was a
good mix of folks that we spoke with for
this episode of smart economy podcast
ranging from the entrance of the class
of 2020 and 21 to those who were
directly impacted by the collapse of
Mount gox to set a tone for the rest of
the episode I wanted to hear a little
bit about people's perspective of the
crypto space and what they like about
these in-person events Hillary Sims from
the wazis nft pro project and bullish
Terriers said yeah this is my first
crypto conference ever the thing I think
is the craziest is that you know you
really see how massive the space is when
you see this many people here and you
start talking and you find out that they
you have no idea what product they're
building where they're from you don't
know any of the same people and it's
like literally we've both been in the
same space for how many years and we
don't know who we're talking about so
like it was pretty refreshing to like
talk to you and like have you know about
all the OG uh CT memes and drama Hillary
has been in the crypto space for a while
so it was really interesting that this
was actually her first event ever though
this experience wasn't unique to just
her Leo Guin is a senior at CU Boulder
and is building fan guard a ticketing
platform that leverages nfts he touched
upon how hard it can be to discuss
blockchain with people out in the wild
who are not in the industry personally
it's like the past I don't know six six
seven years research I'm just learning
about crypto it's been more of a solo
Adventure
um just learn myself and maybe like
talking to my family and then like oh
Leo just shut up I don't care about this
and and coming here and and enthusia
blockchain Club too but also just
meeting more people here I can just like
nerd out too which is great because I
like to nerd out all the time and this
is my way to just meet new people meet
actual faces meet people I met online
and it's just a great connected person
because you know mine's great but
getting to see the person getting to see
their language and how they
interact with the world is so different
and I I believe I value that something
that I love about events like this is
just running into random people that you
never thought you would have met while I
was standing in line for a hero I got to
chatting with a newer industry entrant
who is building a mobile game that
incorporates nfts Scott Herman the
director of talent acquisition at wagme
games said
someone in this space is is very open
people are just happy to talk and it's
because this Market is such a an
emerging space where everyone here is
more focused on increasing the size of
the pie versus trying to take a small
slice for themselves and because
everyone understands that I feel like
it's I look forward to these events like
I'm gonna meet so many cool people I'm
gonna make some new friends I'm gonna
get people to try my game and give me
their honest opinion about it I really
like it it wasn't just those who were
attending their first crypto conference
that felt that the buzz was palpable for
many in this space these in-person
blockchain events are among the handful
of times they might ever get to
physically meet someone that they work
with on a day-to-day basis James Young
from collabland said I've been a
developer for a long time like
this July I'll be 51 and this is still
the most kind of
I don't know like
it's weird like the learnings and the
constant Innovation I've never seen
before and it's so interesting to me
because we deal with this like
quote-unquote trustless technology but
going to these conferences uh I think
you know for me I've made more friends
and like connections here than I ever
have before in such a short amount of
time
um because Innovation happens way too
fast there's no way that you're going to
be able to know everything so you want
to like size up devs and like okay well
I know they know what they're doing and
what they're saying so I want to pick
their brain on stuff because that's the
only way you're going to be able to
shorthand all the Innovation that's
happening so in that way it's the kind
of balance and then you want to pay it
forward and give back to people and so
like want to help new devs out and so
this all like constant like
recalibration and each Denver veterans
were also excited about the people who
have attended year in and year out as
well as those who are brand new to the
space bringing the passion and drive one
of the things I noticed at this year's
event was much more hoodies and jeans
compared to the amount of eccentric
Rainbow clothing and funky cost costumes
from years prior I posited this Theory
to eth Denver co-organizer and former
shapeshift head of r d Kent Barton yeah
I mean I think honestly it would still
be Denver even if everybody decided just
to wear like a leather jacket and dress
like all metal and black that's how I
frequently dress uh the the colorful
stuff is sort of part of the brand but
like people should just dress however
they want and ultimately it's like
beyond the surface level stuff of what
you're wearing it's really about what
are you working on
um also I feel like sometimes like to
The Outsider that might otherwise be
interested in this space the um the
crazy stuff is like maybe a little bit
alienating because it's like well I
didn't sign up for that that stuff what
is this crazy Neo hippie you know
like
um so I'm really glad that there is a
balance and there should always be room
for people to dress however they want
even if you want to show up in a suit
and tie like dude if that's your thing
cool you know it's like it's not about
what you're wearing it's about who you
are what are your ideas do you want to
hang out that's kind of it's all about
this year's eth Denver was packed with
so many different types of ideas from
the participants something I've always
appreciated about the blockchain space
is how anyone can carve out a role for
themselves if they really want to be a
part of the industry I included this
next portion of the podcast to highlight
the different crypto timelines of the
attendees at East Denver Hillary from
bullish Terriers talked about what
brought her into the space and what
still amazes her I got into the scene um
[Music]
little bit
super interested in the tech started it
got into Mining and like
yeah mining Bitcoin yeah yeah so so I
had amp Miners and um you know we'd go
to like the local Texas minor meetups
and whatnot and like my brother was into
it whenever all the this the Ico season
happened and I just kind of like jumped
in full force researching
um what to buy what to sell and like
um kind of fell in love with uh you know
they're really crappy coins it's just
fun like the that part of the trading
like is exhilarating to me it's kind of
like astonishing to see that actually
some of those you know projects made it
and and are still around today and like
you know I'm still holding some of these
tokens which is cool Scott from wag me
games highlighted how he was able to
leverage his social media experience and
success in the fitness industry to join
the team of a blockchain based game even
though he was relatively new to the
crypto space YouTube kind of just
started and Twitter just came out and I
was like you know I could help people in
my club that couldn't afford a personal
trainer if I made these how-to videos on
how to use all the equipment in my gyms
and at that point there was no
algorithms right I could I could upload
10 videos at a time and it didn't matter
right right it was great and they're all
one to two minute videos like how to
bench press how to bend over row how to
pull up how to how to any anything yeah
you know my my how-to plank video has
like 30 million views it's crazy but
that really taught me you know hey
social media there's something here you
can connect people all over the world
and it was it really allowed me to do
what I wanted to do which was teach
Fitness to the world fast forward to
2021 and I started kind of getting into
crypto I had a friend tell me to buy
Shiba Inu and that was my that was my
intro to crypto was hey buy Shiba Inu so
I started a crypto YouTube channel and I
was a very warm welcomed into the
community because I would go on live
streams from other crypto Channels with
my Scott Hermann Fitness YouTube channel
handle and by the end of my first crypto
year exploring like all coins and Dows
and all these different things I started
to realize that what was probably going
to take off first for crypto and really
make it mainstream was gaining because
in gaming the utility isn't the stuff
you're making up to try to create
utility it's the game and if the game is
fun then people will buy the nfts and if
you can figure out how to integrate the
token that makes sense people will buy
the token but the main focus has to be
the game
when I first heard about Bitcoin it
sounded really interesting but there was
way too much to learn and I quickly
wrote off the entire space in fact
sometimes I still feel like I can't keep
my head wrapped around a lot of the new
blockchain enabled products and
technologies that are coming out on a
consistent basis I am sure this is
something that resonates with many Mike
Chan the thesis head of marketing
acknowledged this but also had a
positive outlook on the amount of
knowledge that's necessary in the crypto
space been working for about four years
now okay uh you know but you know like
many other people uh investing for a
while since 2013
so yeah I mean I think it's it's
obviously a space that has uh has
changed a lot and that's one of the
parts that I love about it is just the
just constant change they gotta keep up
uh but yeah we're building the future
here there are a wide swath of reasons
why someone might become interested in
crypto and blockchain Technologies it
could be from a monetary stance and
artist's perspective desire for open and
decentralized networks political
ideologies really there are just so many
reasons why someone might become
interested in this industry Alex Mexico
from the people talking podcast shared a
bit about his Genesis into crypto I came
from a more traditional light bulb
moment that a lot of people like the
early people can uh came into the space
for I was an economics major I look at
the world through the lines of economics
and I worked in the tech space for a
while and like many other people I had
that initial uh introduction to bitcoin
and ethereum thought it was cool didn't
really dig too much into it and then
left it for a few years and then you
come back to it and dive down the rabbit
hole and you're like why didn't I listen
to myself I would say sometime in
college so probably somewhere in the
2015 to 2016 like early ethereum days
I'd heard about it and just the fact
that it was this kind of decentralized
technology that was more of like a world
computer that you could build on top of
the applications that to me more than
Bitcoin anything else coming from like
being interested in attack world I saw
the initial uh the value of that but
come late 2020 early 2021
just the political landscape that was
going on I kind of I I already had this
kind of cautious approach to Authority
into government and not just blindly
trusting and being very aware of how
this could Snowball right
um but there were things going on there
where I just had this first break that I
was like I really just had zero
confidence in introductory right now
like things are accelerating in terms of
how bad they could get yeah so I started
looking at Alternatives and naturally
that brings me back to the space and at
that point it was obviously way way way
more mature so they were a lot more not
only a lot more content for me to to
read uh documentation videos like the
things that people are trying to create
to bring in that next way for people I
was that way with that woman but a lot
of use cases were really built out and
realized this was no longer a
theoretical thing these things were
built up and there's always that next
way but here's what else we could do
here's what else we could do let's take
this concept out to the end of the grief
here's what's possible and that just got
me super super excited I was immediately
ill and I just go deep down the rabbit
hole
in 2019 I participated in a panel at a
local Colorado blockchain event debating
the merits of EOS Neo and ethereum at
that time we were in the depths of a
post-ico bear market and it seemed like
there were only builders that were
attending these events at this year's
East Denver I ran into one of my
co-panelists from that event that
represented the ethereum perspective
James Young the co-founder and CEO of
collabland shared a bit of his
experience from back then and how the
ethos of crypto is still alive today and
how that keeps him going in 2019
and we are like when we had that talk
that panel conversation if I remember
correctly we were still kind of in the
thick of a bear market and
my thoughts back then were okay
our blockchain crypto web 3 is it
actually going to be relevant or not
right there was kind of this existential
questioning in the bear Market because I
think from what I remember Eve was like
at the peak 1440 and then it dropped
down to 80. yeah
and so that was this kind of questioning
this bear Market if it's your first bear
Market it definitely is impactful and uh
it could be shocking
but I don't think in this cycle
I haven't had existential issues yeah
right so I think now it's about
mainstream adoption and really it's
about like
can we stay true to our original ethos
uh you know you see all these scams and
centralized exchange hacks or all the
regulatory issues that are happening and
I think it's a different kind of concern
but
I think going through kind of the
previous Cycles I guess I don't know I
get thicker skin or you know not as
worried or you know we've been through
this before it doesn't seem as like you
know kind of oh man like is this gonna
work out it feels like this cycle is
more about how do we stay true to kind
of the original ethos and it's
interesting to like see people
and not see people who's still in it and
who's like Tapped Out
and so yeah I mean it's great seeing you
here because likewise you know it's this
kind of constant thread of people you
know still here and it takes that I
think time Horizon
to really
vet out who's in it for the right
reasons
during my tenure in the blockchain
industry something has always stuck out
to me it doesn't matter whether you've
got a 30-year career in finance under
your belt or you're a high school
student who likes to Tinker with
blockchain everyone is even on the
blockchain field because the information
is open and available for anyone and
everyone to consume and this is such a
young early nascent field so it was
really interesting to hear about Leo's
experience even though he is quote
unquote still in college
when I was in high school
funny story is I went on a cruise and I
started seeing newspapers back in 2017
Bitcoin reaching 20K all-time highs I'm
like what is this what is this
um but the funny part is is actually
before that I think 2015 2016 I I was
thinking of buying silver or Bitcoin
because because I was I was just young I
want to invest in something but
unfortunately I bought silver instead
and I still regret to this day but I I
was under 18 so I was on a depression I
couldn't buy a Bitcoin but I could have
definitely found like a
Shady exchange or whatever yeah in some
way there's always a way there's a will
there's a way but I I always regret that
ever since but
it's it's all right so like when I first
turned 18 finally I bought Bitcoin back
in 2019. so that was before like this
other cycle so I've been pretty comfy
and it's it's pretty nice to see like
just like
the cycle of everything and seeing how
that works given the various experience
levels and General Industry Outlook I
really wanted to get a sense of what
others thought about East Denver over
the years I'd certainly developed my own
insights and this year I noticed a
bigger Gathering of people and more
unique projects at the event but I
wanted to hear what others thought and
if they were getting this sense as well
I was particularly interested to hear
what Dan Shields a developer experience
engineer at parity Technologies and
former guest of The neo-news Today
podcast thought on that subject matter
he has been a staple in the local
Colorado blockchain Community since 2017
and has attended every Eve Denver he
said oh man so I just watched this uh
Denver 7 News uh like blip that came up
this morning and uh so the vibe has
changed in how big this thing is the
local news stations talking about the
governor coming and to this uh as they
deemed it the Super Bowl of crypto which
I thought was kind of cute
um but we're very well established and
John pauler came on and his quote was
basically like this year we have more
people than all previous five years
combined crazy which is nuts yeah right
uh in looking at this you can see it
we're in this massive venue that's like
amazed in fact it's this like I don't
know how many hundreds of thousands of
square feet that you can't tell where
you are like it's like just Jungle of
sponsors and booze to meet people like
the thing though that's different this
year from last year and last year to be
honest I was a little a little concerned
we're in the top of this you know bull
market phase and there's a whole bunch
of hype and money and it was a like
forget my friend it's a party in what
got deluded which was really unfortunate
and made me worry was all this like
energy and culture around building a
better future than I'd seen before it
was more just like we're here to have a
good time then like we're here for a
reason yeah and this year feels more a
lot more like we're here for a reason
which is super cool especially seeing
that we're growing and the cultures back
yeah so like if anything this makes me
super bullish about this year moving
forward is uh I love the bear cycles for
the people in the culture that it brings
out the one thing that hasn't changed
changed year to year is the growth in
the Fiddlers that are here it's just
amazing to see you know and it seems
like the culture is thriving no matter
what the fiscal environment is like
another industry veteran and friend
Michael Kirkland the former shapeshift
Chief Information Security Officer and
current C4 board chair shared what he
loves about eth Denver honestly I love
the vibe of East Denver more than any
other conference that I attend every
year it's a Vibe of building or biddling
I should say it's a Vibe of fun people
are in uh fluorescent colors shiny
things by myself as I as I speak to your
listeners I'm wearing a unicorn Cape
which is very apropos for this venue
that blend of getting stuff done and
building alongside well let's do it in a
fun way that five has always attracted
me and I think it's one of the main
reasons why ethereum has done so well
over the years since it's launched Alex
from the people talking podcast also
noted the growth in participants and the
energy of the crowd he too is a Colorado
local and has attended multiple each
Denver's and highlighted how the event
has matured over the years he said this
is my second or third East Denver I
think I just missed the ones two three
years ago so the virtual one well it
actually might have been virtual that's
probably why I didn't hear much about it
uh I've been to other emcons here but
this was already when East Denver was
big and it's just it's still growing in
an exponential rate yeah it's still big
I think people are still Blown Away by
how many people show up especially now
in a bear Market it's pretty it feels a
lot better seeing how many people are
here and how energized people are yeah
bear Market it's not just like a the
attendance rates fluctuate with the the
token price that's really really good to
see you can tell it's just this is not
an investor Focus or just a price
focused type of community totally a lot
of the stuff I'm seeing on Twitter is
people are just really really fired up
at some of the things being built and
how how enthusiastic people still are
about this space because there is so
much to do so it's overwhelmed man it's
been all over the place so
but the things that are super exciting
to hear about are people that are
starting companies either to develop
protocols or they're starting Dows to
develop different projects or they're
starting new Creator type of projects it
is all over the board I wouldn't say
through the conversations that I've had
at least anyone being what's really cool
to see is how many people are coming
from lots of different angles
and James is also familiar with East
Denver events as he is a local and has
also attended nearly all of them but
he's also been going to other
conferences this year as part of his
role with collab land so it was really
interesting to hear how this event has
compared and contrasted with those that
he's recently been to James said this
conference is huge like compared to like
last year and I mean every year it's
grown but this kind of like feels like a
different level yeah and I just see a
faces I don't know most of anyone when
typically I can like spot out people in
a crowd yeah instead of being the cop
going through the conference circuit
because of collab land we've been to a
lot of nft conferences interesting and
the nft conferences are very different
it's very much like
partying culture more like mainstream in
a way and coming here uh to East Denver
I don't see that nft presence it's a
different kind of vibe and I think it's
a mix of like being in the bear market
and this being more developer-centric
I'm really interested like you were just
saying what projects are going to come
out of here because we have like new I
don't know generation of developers
every cycle account abstraction is like
pretty huge uh and Mev is pretty huge
and then like DK like all in all you
know zero knowledge stuff is pretty huge
so I think those three kind of advanced
threads like kind of going deep into the
weeds there is really interesting
over the days during my time spent
roaming the massive floor space of East
Denver I'd also noticed a lot of new
faces at previous events I'd attended
I'd often times run into people from the
local blockchain community with higher
frequency seemingly around every corner
that I used to turn so I was interested
to hear from first time attendees about
how this event stacked up to any
preconceived notion or hype that they
might have heard Mike from thesis said
yeah definitely uh you don't even exceed
my expectations of being the first Steve
Denver like I mentioned it's it's a very
different different vibe than some of
the other conferences that I've been to
and yeah you get you get more of a
builder Vibe you get more of the people
who uh you know truly believe in in what
we're trying to build here and uh it was
it's massive I didn't know it was this
big so that was certainly certainly a
big shock but yeah I think I've had tons
of great conversations here I think uh
the people that we've talked to about
about Tahoe and threshold are all super
excited about what we're building and
that's what it's all about yeah are you
going to be coming back next year I'm
gonna try definitely definitely I don't
know just saying um I broke two ribs on
the mountains before eat Denver so if
that I hope that doesn't happen again
next year if I come back uh but yeah
that definitely try to try to make my
way back
Scott from wagme games has been
attending a lot of nft and gaming
conferences as of late so his take
offered a bit of context for how games
can be part of blockchain specific
events Scott went on to say I'd say it's
like the bigger bigger conference
because this is set up to be an actual
spot where like you stay in the
conference like for example NYC nft was
big and there was a lot of people but
like all over the place the goal was to
go to like other locations for different
brands that had rented out space and
things like that permissionless was cool
but I felt like it didn't have as much
variety as Heath Denver has and Heath
Denver has a lot of different like
gaming specific type stuff which
obviously I'm really I really like you
know so I would say so far out of all
the conferences this one's more tailored
to the things I would like to see so I'm
happy we're here
Beyond interesting hackathon prizes and
informational presentations on various
facets of the blockchain and crypto
space events like East Denver serve as a
great medium for the dreaded word
networking while it can be an
unfavorable topic for the introverted
developer ultimately when anxieties
subside these types of events attract
really interesting people and it's great
to connect with them Hillary from
bullish Terriers said it's been really
cool and I've met get a lot of really
amazing people like just honestly my
favorite part has just been like meeting
you you know just who am I standing next
to like what are they up to and then
it's kind of amazing like how you're
finding solutions for these things that
you might be building or you might want
to be a part of like just seems it seems
like they've just fallen into my lap
like since I've been here so it's a bit
overwhelming and I wish I had like the
time and the energy to like stay the
entire time and really like squeeze out
every last drop like you know because
it's funny like I've been to a couple
events that were like very oversold very
crowded and then I had planned on
leaving you know and then I go over by
the fire and I've met like the you know
the CEO of the whole company is like
just hiding in the back you know and
it's like those are the moments where
you're like okay it was worth it like we
had a long conversation we really
connected and like I'm I'm like I feel
super optimistic leaving here and I
think probably everyone has the same
feeling like you get re-energized like
and I think that's what we need in a
bear Market
from the small sample size I was able to
collect through these various
conversations many of the attendees
generally had nothing but positive
things to say about East Denver I
wondered was the quote-unquote eth
Denver Vibe something that the
co-founders and volunteer staff were
worried about losing since we were
moving venues and into a larger space
Kent one of the co-organizers said I
feel relieved I was cautiously
optimistic that the vibe would scale up
from the Sports Castle which is our
spiritual home and it's been so amazing
over the past several years and we had
to scale up you know there it was
getting crowded big lines not enough
bathrooms but it was a special place but
I was hoping it would make with the new
place would maintain this sort of like
kind of gritty Punky Vibe and not feel
too polished and corporate and this this
place the National Western Complex is
perfect it's like it's big it's vast but
it hasn't really changed the um
fundamental like the fundamental youth
then revived is still here
one of my favorite things about the
blockchain and cryptocurrency space is
the ubiquitousness of the technology and
all the various Industries and verticals
that this open source decentralized
Network Technology touches something
that really stuck out to me is that it
doesn't matter if you're an industry OG
or brand new to the space if you've got
the drive and the passion and the vision
then there's plenty of room for you here
Leo from fanguard and CU Boulder talked
about how his team's platform is coming
together each day we connected over well
40 interviews now around the local
Colorado area
regarding venues and how they do their
ticketing so and what the problems we
found out was like the security of
tickets people getting to events and the
secondary market and how that works and
scamming and price gouging scalpers so
we created we created fan guard which
basically uses nfts to help with the
ticketing industry to help with the
ticketing Market yes um so right now we
are creating our first Spark contracts
through Neo which is awesome yeah I
think yeah thanks for Tyler and Dylan
um yeah so so the one thing we we like
about it is right now um I I'm more the
blockchain person and my friends are
more like the Web 2.0 side the front and
the back end
so basically I work with them to help
connect the Neo blockchain side to our
front and natural Web 2.0 backup
of course being a developer isn't the
only way to carve an itch in or
contribute to the blockchain and crypto
space I am a living Testament to that I
write articles I host meetups and I have
a podcast that I am ever so thankful to
you the listener Alex from the people
talking podcast went on to share his
thoughts on creating content in the web3
space I wanted to start my own podcast
but I started to ask myself why would I
do another web3 podcast because there
are so many out there and it seems to
bring on the same guests talking about
the same type of specific things in
weathering so the angle that I wanted to
take differently and this was values
that I had before is what I found is as
I was talking to more and more people on
the web free space I found so many of
them had lots and lots of different
interests outside of web3 and were
almost similarly obsessed with those
things but never got to talk about them
because again they're going on the same
podcast on the same web three specific
types of contents but what happens is
these different topics that they get
obsessed with always influence their
perception and how they look at what
degree and how they how they build and
women so for example I've had guests on
talking about probability and gambling
using physics to design better
metaverses storytelling conflict Native
American history and how those cultures
were very decentralized and there's so
many learning lessons that he's learning
from that from that culture on how to
maybe design a more decentralized
ecosystem within web 3. and the thing is
these topics are never directly related
to web3 so the podcast is called people
talking just at the atomic level
probably the most simple description of
all podcasts right it's a little bit of
that Midwest self-deprecating so it's
called people talking uh it's on it's on
Spotify Apple podcasts and a few other
smaller different podcasts costing sites
and what might be easier to do is if you
search people talking and then my name
Alex Mexico sort by podcasts and shows
it'll come up getting into the podcast
space and to take a little bit of a step
back like everyone else I feel like in
this space is you're not only just doing
a full-time gig or doing one thing but
you're doing lots and lots of different
things at the same time
along these lines of creative avenues
for crypto creators there are other
Artistic Endeavors that can also be
associated with good causes Hillary from
bullish Terriers described what inspired
her nft project I I just kind of like
got introduced to the nft scene about a
year and a half ago kind of started
drawing a little bit on my own
um dropping some things on Open Sea that
were getting picked up and I you know
like I to me I was so shocked that like
no one knows who I am I'm just posting
this random thing and like within 10 15
minutes someone is buying it for like
four or five hundred dollars you know
like couldn't believe it I work for
bywasses yeah quasi in real life yes and
um like just kind of after seeing the
power of positivity around the scene
like how sweet everybody is and how they
get so excited about what you're doing
it really made me think about uh
something that I'm passionate about in
my real life which is helping rescue
animals I have two rescue Bull Terriers
and I kind of originally thought about
doing a meme coin and I'm like that's
dangerous and I'm not a yeah yeah like
so I was like the bull token you know or
whatever I don't know so then I thought
you know what if we you know what if I
did a little acute pfp collection and
that was like right when pfps were like
starting to come out and be popular and
um I thought you know this is such an
amazing way to be able to raise These
funds in real life we have a group of
about 200 uh bull terrier owners who
kind of found each other through
Instagram and um so we have this awesome
core Instagram group like uh communally
we have over 2 million followers like
collectively between us and like for
almost a decade now we've been doing a
small fundraiser every summer but Bull
Terriers love bananas and so we have
just uh we kind of figured that out like
after talking to each other it's like
they're obsessed with bananas and so we
made a banana themed
fundraiser where we sell merch every
year trying to raise money for the these
rescue groups and it's called manner
Fest and it's coming up and um I I would
love to segue this into more of a
children's brand like having a cartoon
having all of the things like we you
know like we have plushies in the works
a lot of toys I want to write children's
books like
um but with a mission you know and so
like I want everybody to know when they
see a bullish cherry or what it is
Scott shared a bit about how he got his
foot into the door at wagney games and
what the team is currently working on I
actually joined wagney first as an
influencer so last February and then
after my first month with them
essentially what I did was I utilized
all those contacts I had made from when
I first started getting into crypto and
basically gave wagney a huge push our
first game is called wagmy defense so
wag me to games as our franchise and our
goal here is mass adoption and wagmy
defense is a tower defense game it's a
strategy game very similar to clash
Royale there's three towers on one side
three towers on the other side the goal
is to blow up the middle Tower and it's
a three minute game Loop alongside the
creative projects our guests are working
on others are also focused on educating
people from newbies to seasoned
developers about various aspects and
facets of multiple blockchain
Technologies for example Michael from C4
talked about his transition from working
at a decentralized exchange into an
education-focused entity I'm here
representing C4 which is a non-profit
that helps educate and provide standards
for the space but also the shapeshift
out which is uh how I spend my day job
for five and a half years I was
shapeshift's Chief Information Security
Officer and although shapeshift is shut
down now and I no longer work for
shapeshift I continue to work on
shapeshift I had the pleasure of uh of
leading a team for one of the most
ambitious projects that's shapeshift Dao
embarked on and that's a way to get us
off of centralized AWS as a back end and
have us on a decentralized RPC backend
instead I'm also happy to say that as
far as C4 goes my day-to-day involvement
with that non-profit organization has
dropped a lot mostly because we have
amazing staff members now working
full-time for C4 to help it accomplish
its Mission our executive director
Jessica is a Spitfire she is awesome at
everything that she does she comes from
background of Education which is perfect
for our mission uh and through her
leadership we were abled over the last
year we launched the uh certified
ethereum professional exam and we
launched the translations the Spanish
translations as well launching the ccssa
the cryptocurrency security standard
auditor exam so three huge Milestones
all within the last year uh largely
because of Jessica's leadership after
scratching the surface then there are
education efforts that really seek to
hone into the specifics of code bases
and seek to educate core developer of
blockchain networks one such Avenue for
teaching developers is through a
rigorous course which Dan from parity
Technologies talked a little bit about I
got into parody Technologies and this is
the engineering team that's mostly
behind polka dot
um and putting in all the the hard work
behind substrate this is the blockchain
building framework in Rust that we use
to build polka itself and all these pair
chains that connect to it but a lot of
what I've been doing is understanding
how substrate works why it works all
these complicated systems of building
blockchains and what's become
increasingly apparent to us is that one
it's really hard and two it's really
hard for people to understand how to do
this and there's there's no program for
it so out of this has come the polka dot
blockchain Academy it's polka dot and
name only though in Brands and I think
that's just because it's subsidized
pretty much entirely by parody presently
and shortly will be by polka dots
treasury itself very very soon this is
an active academically rigorous program
that's in person that we're going to run
two to three times a year depending on
how much uh we were able to around the
world to teach people core engineering
Concepts right it's an academically
rigorous program to go from like
competent-ish engineer who knows
something about rust out to a very well
established Baseline understanding of
all the fundamentals with no gaps to
build secure and absolutely robust
consensus systems then there are also
products tools and dapps that folks are
working on building whether it's for the
end user or the development team for the
end user Mike from thesis talked about
two of his team's projects that had
booths at eth Denver thesis is a crypto
Venture startup studio so we build
projects internally incubate them and
then uh and then spin eventually spin
them out uh so you know the the bird
flies flies
so here we have two projects one is
threshold which is uh the uh the
decentralized Bitcoin to ethereum bridge
one of the big uh big themes in Bitcoin
now are the the ordinals right uh you
know kind of a contentious little
subject look you know they're building
on bitcoin and that's cool right like I
think I think it's super cool that and
they're experimenting on bitcoin just
like uh that ethereum developers have
been doing for for many many years uh so
yeah you know we with some minimal
changes we can have a uh Bitcoin ordinal
bridge to to ethereum uh and and we're
you know we're researching that we're
working on that the other project is is
Tahoe where the um uh community-owned
open source web free wallet and you know
I think the big difference between us
and a lot of the other wallets is is
that we really Embrace and espouse the
web 3D dose of community ownership
transparency uh and yeah and also it's
just a beautiful wallet to use yeah uh
yeah and you know we the we have in
wallet swaps and that all that all the
fees for that those goes back to the
treasury cool Community gets to uh to
vote on you know how we use those funds
and and you know the future features of
of the wallets
in the past few years it feels as if
Community participation and governance
models have really taken off within the
blockchain space from Dows to token
gated communities there are new models
of group participation that continue to
arise James from collabland talked a
little bit about what it's like to
engage with and build for these
communities collab land helps manage
your token Community your tokenized
community
and so we offered and we invented the
the space of token gating the the whole
industry and we just had a token launch
last week we have about I think this
morning when I was checking uh almost 90
000 uh holders wow yeah and our Dao that
we also launched just crossed 50 000
members instead of going and competing
directly on features why don't we open
up the platform for third-party
developers to build on top of very cool
and now we think of ourselves as collab
land is not token gating anymore but of
a distribution platform because if
you're a third-party developer and you
want to reach an nft community
what are you gonna do you're going to
one build whatever the app you're
building and then two and a lot of
developers don't really think about this
the distribution is very hard how do you
Market how do you get awareness right
and this is what these hackathons are
about to provide awareness to you know
great and interesting ideas
but with collab land what we want to
offer is instant distribution so if you
have a great app and you want to be able
to reach nft communities you can just
build on top of collab land and you know
you'll get direct access into that nfts
Discord server if they choose to install
your app
as the rate of developers onboarding
into the web3 space increases we're
going to be hearing more about both
Niche and broader projects
simultaneously
with so many East Denver 2023 hackathon
participants I was blown away by the
types of developers that are out there
so I was a little bit curious to hear
what finding developers was like five
years ago when they might have been a
little bit more rare Kent the East
Denver co-organizer and former head of r
d at shapeshift shared what it was like
looking for developers back then so a
solidity developer back in the day was
like a unicorn an ultra rare unicorn
like and now you know solidity
developers are still hard to come by but
you know this is more of a thing now
yeah um I it still feels like we're on
the frontier but back in the day at
centralized shape shift it was um it was
also a feeling of like very much just
like okay we're making this up for like
improving sort of like to use a music
analogy like playing some improv guitar
solo we're gonna hit some bad notes and
we don't really know what we're doing it
might turn into a train wreck but
hopefully not but now it feels like got
some stuff under our belt and it feels
smoother so um
yeah relative to then it feels much more
inevitable that this technology is going
to be a thing
over the years it's become more and more
noticeable but no more so than this year
and that is East Denver was a
multi-chain Melting Pot throughout the
event I Saw shirts booths and
presentations from the cosmos near polka
dot and various L2 ecosystems alongside
the Neo Swagger war and people were even
talking about building on bitcoin Kent
the East Denver co-organizer touched
upon this theme and highlighted some of
the multi-chain discussions that were
taking place this year two themes I
would say there's a lot going to be
happening on Roll-Ups just seeing like
the different iterations of Roll-Ups you
have so many variants right now and
there's going to be just a huge
proliferation and Cambrian explosion of
those and then also multi-chune you know
you have a lot of people I've never
heard the city of Denver a lot of people
are talking about Bitcoin for a chance
you know you have ordinals now that's a
whole new thing man and like that's
great I love Bitcoin I hate Bitcoin
Maxes and to see some Innovation on that
you know is is great so I think there'll
be some some developments on that front
for sure that's exciting I can't recall
seeing a Bitcoin centered type of
hackathon project at priority Denver so
that was really cool to see this just
confirmed my thesis in terms of like you
can tell there's Innovation happening in
different spaces different chains you
can tell these people are committed they
have awesome ideas and every you know
every blockchain has trade-offs I'm an
ethereum guy myself I think that's the
most that provides the best balance of
you know scaling and decentralization
and security kind of especially with
Roll-Ups however like you know there's
different design spaces and it would be
tremendous Folly to say that oh you know
this one thing is is all it is all there
is we for the sake of building a vibrone
ecosystem we need different um we need
different chains
a hope of mine as we progress further
into the multi-chain world is that there
is less crypto tribalism among all of
the token holders this is not a game
where it is a or b But A and B and C and
so forth Dan from parity Technologies
acknowledged how different chains can
serve different developers needs the
thing that Drew me to the ecosystem
originally in the 2017-2018 range in
particular was ethereum Denver that
happened the first one in 2018 and it
was the culture and the people that that
sunk it for me it's like this technology
is really interesting and the crypto is
kind of cool I guess but like the people
in the Clear Vision about trying to make
a better world like in some of the most
intelligent brilliant people that I've
ever met in my life were here so that's
what I'm a Maximus doing is web3 vision
and people it's solidity can do what
they need to do they probably should do
that right it's easier it's probably
faster to make happen there's way more
support and education around it so if
you need something better though and
more custom more optimized you come in
and find our stack and then from there
hopefully you can find the real value
proposition of polka dot which is the
shared security model and what I'm
really excited and maybe bullish on is
what polkadot can provide that other
bridged Technologies and other um
General like multi-chain environments
are lacking routes right now for
instance Cosmos right it's a very vague
and unclear security model across chains
right so we definitely we've got the
cosmos SDK that you can build your chain
it's cool um but this IDC it's not clear
what security you're going to get from
that depending on who you're talking to
in an industry as far-reaching as
blockchain and crypto there are so many
projects people and ideas to follow I
enjoyed getting to ask each of the
guests what are the trends or the needs
of users moving forward that you're
keeping an eye on answers varied from
very technical perspectives to education
oriented and a community themed Concepts
Hillary from bullish Terriers touched on
a few of these topics there's so much
innovation in the space continually
it's not even just
winners it's about
quality and Longevity I do have that in
real life with my group of over you know
200 people it's just a matter of
teaching them how to safely get involved
with the space so like so we're looking
at a way to sort of onboard new people
to web3 and
um have a Fiat on-ramp for them and and
make sure that they understand about you
know wallet Safety and Security and
whatnot
it could also be as simple as just
making a really fun game for people to
play that will onboard the next wave of
blockchain users Scott from wagbee games
said I feel like in the crypto space we
need games of course there's room for
first person shooters and there's room
for these huge metaverses but your
average web 2 Gamer does not want to
even look at those games and mobile is
53 of the market so everyone has a phone
everyone has time for a mobile game but
what about the users around the globe
who aren't Gamers what about the
everyday average citizen on their mobile
apps or those who are just surfing the
web you know the ones who don't care
about underlying protocols Alex from the
people talking podcast spoke a bit about
what he thinks the technical and
cultural aspects of the blockchain space
will be moving forward I do think that
ux is going to continue to be something
that people are focusing on and you have
to continually extrapolate away the kind
of back end which is the blockchain
aspect of these different apps the
ultimate metric for me and the ux side
of things people don't even know
that it's blockchain or what blockchain
it is for nft the word NFC is never used
like extrapolating that more and more
way that's going to be an iterative
thing I bet it's continuing to be a
focus for next year but hopefully we're
in a much better spot and we could say
ux is still a focus but here are the
here are the ways that we've actually
improved the less as far as five I think
this is going to get more and more
eclectic the types of people come in
here right now I I wouldn't even
necessarily right now maybe in last year
or the year before that very much a
technology focused type uh and finance
focused type of conference but now I
think it's becoming more of a
culture-based
culture-based type of
um Community yeah that's the big word I
keep people I see people saying it's
it's a community and the thing is people
are coming from lots of different
Avenues as I'm sure you are seeing on
this show where did you get crypto built
and the more and more you're going to
interview people the more different like
backgrounds that they're going to have
in these different angles that they're
going to be coming into web 3 because
there are more use cases built out and
that light bulb moment is going to be
very different with lots of different
things
it is the variety of types of people
here and the ones that are coming that
make the crypto space such a vast array
of ideas and potential as different
types of culture begin to embed
themselves and make an impact on the
blockchain industry different use cases
will arise Mike from thesis touched upon
the diversity of ideas and architecture
that's part of the thing that keeps you
on your toes you know I'm think that
there's so much creativity now where do
you like working we're still really
early in this space right aside from
even though we've got you know all this
coverage on CNBC and all these news
outlets we're still really early in the
experimentation phase there's still the
the core infrastructure being built out
you know a lot of people are like okay
why do we need another five layer ones
right because it's just the core well no
one's figuring it out yet right so you
know I think on one hand nothing
surprises me too much nowadays on the
other hand you know I think I am also
surprised about like all the creativity
and and uh the hard work that's going
into building out the important
structure
I also wanted to touch upon a theme that
I'm excited to look back on in a year or
three will institutions and Retail
crypto users develop a similar affinity
for self custodial Solutions Mike went
on to say a lot of those institutions
got burned right I and and I always say
this a lot where uh
whether it's a retail user investor or
institutional user investor uh most
people
don't care about the essentialization
until they really have to and most
people should care more uh and it is you
know it's kind of the truth right I
think a lot of people will just want to
do what's convenient and uh but then
sometimes they pay the price and no one
wants to see that pay the price uh but I
mean that's why we're all here we want
to make sure that that they don't have
to pay the cost it's not just Broad and
cultural shifts and Trends the industry
will need to keep an eye on moving
forward but also a new era for internet
architecture Michael from C4 and
formally shapeshift went on to highlight
a really cool project he's been working
on with an array of shadowy super coders
RKO is a decentralized RPC Network it's
a decentralized inferior rather than uh
talking to a centralized batch of AWS
servers or a centralized uh inferior you
can use archeo to find a Bitcoin node in
ethereum node a Litecoin note any of the
blockchains that you need and get all
the data that your application needs
cool
um the launch date hasn't been announced
yet but it is coming later this year in
2023. I would encourage people to uh get
involved with the test net because
that's a Surefire way of getting RKO
tokens at launch cool uh to to make sure
that that you get a larger allocation in
the airdrop than the average person
in such a rapidly evolving text base
something that people might have wanted
three years ago might be something that
they want nothing to do with today there
are also corners of the crypto space
today that weren't buzzing three years
ago James from collabland talks about
some of the changes over the past few
years where his team is seeing current
demand and predicts what will become a
primary area of focus in the Years
coming so we sit in the middle of nfts
dows and D5 and we see a lot of
mainstream adoption and growth happening
in nfts and so this really interesting
like a year and a half two years ago
when we first started it was really like
crypto Natives and what they were
looking for was we want to make sure
that you respect our privacy
and uh whenever we want to verify
ourselves we want to sign a message but
now the climate or the market has
completely shifted no one wants to sign
a message anymore because that's really
the main scam attack vector and so the
these Cycles move so quickly I you know
been a software developer for 25 years
and I haven't seen Cycles move this
quickly when we went from web one to web
2 we saw social move faster than what
one but like web 3 is like light speed
and so what we are seeing and focusing
on with collab land is trying to service
the this nft community so that's really
where we're seeing the growth and so my
hypothesis
moving forward now uh Community is here
to stay
I think that the crypto Community
developers specifically don't really
understand the breadth of research when
it comes to ID and decentralized IDs and
verifiable credentials
and so I think with the coming
emergence of AI
things are going to get weird really
quick and it's been this interesting
like decade of knowledge of
decentralized IDs where we we want to
own our own data but that was always
kind of a nice to have
but now with the coming Ai No One in a
few years is going to know what's real
and what's fake
and so now a nice to have will quickly
become a need to have where you're I
think I think this is where the internet
is going you're going to distrust
everything on the internet
unless you can verify it
ultimately there was an overwhelming
sense of growth at East Denver there was
a growth in attendees and presentations
in web 3 companies and hackathon
projects and a general sense of growth
in the mainstream Arena from where I
stand east Denver serves as a canary in
the coal mine and the bird is singing a
nice tune Kent touched upon this
positive outlook from his perspective as
a co-organizer I also feel more
optimistic than ever about the future of
this space just walking around seeing
how many like incredibly smart people
and interested people and curious people
are involved you could just it's it's a
very tangible evidence of this space is
growing like you can see like just the
number of booths just the in the across
the different spaces you know back in
the day or even just last year we sort
of had like the General Booth space now
we have the D5 area the Dow area we have
things for different spaces different
sub niches or market segments and it's
really cool to just see kind of that
kind of evolution you know all these
projects succeed for sure not you know
but that's okay it's like it's like the
thousand flowers are blooming and it's
part of part of why I mentioned I'm so
optimistic is you can just see so much
going on there's like this critical mass
you can feel the critical mess there's
so many like interested people that want
to think outside the box and you know I
feel like we're getting more developers
in the space anecdotally it feels like
maybe the space could benefit from more
developers that maybe that's a challenge
moving forward but I'm really just
positive and optimistic I feel like in
the year between here and now there's
going to be 10 years worth of innovation
I think there'll still be a lot of angst
about the regulatory stuff that's
probably not going to be any different
but it kind of rallies everybody behind
this idea of decentralization yeah and
um wow now that I kind of feel like okay
now that we've moved to this venue we
got that down so let's maybe refine on
that and have an either even cooler
event next year
um and I feel like it's going to be
there's going to be more people and uh
people will self-select to join this in
Crazy space we call crypto so yeah check
in one year let's see how it goes but
it's going well so far
this wasn't my first crypto conference
or event but for those who never met the
actual people working in the crypto
space and I'm talking about those who
are only familiar with online
personalities that might be pfps on
Twitter that have a hot take East Denver
served as an Awakening or an aha moment
the people from this event weren't just
people who have hot takes all the time
they were individuals they were Builders
developers Founders investors lawyers
and artists by the final day of the
conference it was obvious that everyone
was absolutely spent from multiple days
walking around and long nights talking
with others at Social hours or
post-conference events but on that final
day there was still an excitement in the
air that could be felt and people
yearned to connect with others and see
what it is that we can all build
together looking forward to next year's
event I can only hope the trends
continue and the onboarding of new
developers and the growth and
decentralized networks and their tools
and I hope that we get to hear about
more sensible legislation and less about
concerns from VCS and lawyers who
delivered presentations this year if
you're interested in attending East
Denver 2024 the best way to keep up to
date with the event is by going to
ethdenver.com I also want to thank
Michael Kirkland Scott Herman Dan
Shields Mike Chan Alex Mexico Hillary
Sims James Young Leo Gwen and Kent
Barton for helping to contribute their
voices for this special episode of the
smart economy podcast attention was a
scarce resource at eth Denver and
everyone was being pulled in multiple
directions at once so I really
appreciate the time that each of you
gave me also shout out to the Neo news
today team who handled my written
content assignments while I was off
gallivanting around this amazing event
on that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
thank you